Exercises in Reconstructing Arguments

Step 1

Is it an argument?

If not, stop!

Step 2

Mark how each sentence functions

Main Premise?
Sub-argument Premise?
Conclusion?

Step 3

Restate the gist of the 
argument in your own words

Flag logical operators
(if/then, and, or, not)

Summarize the conclusion below
the "therefore line"

Premise(s)
----------
Conclusion

Since there were no survivors in the plane crash, it must 
be that the ambassador, who was a passenger, perished.

All cats are mammals. Some mammals have fur, while others
just have skin. Cats have both.

It must be below 35 degrees Fahrenheit because it's snowing.

In the provinces where Italian per capita income is highest,
the Communists received 52 percent of the total vote in the election.

Sam must be the killer. Besides the victim, he was the only person on
the island at 4am, and the autopsy report establishes conclusively that
the victim died at 4am.

Here is another way of seeing that the Moral Law is not simply one of our
instincts. If the Moral Law was one of our instincts, we ought to be able to
point to some one impulse inside us which was always what we call "good," always
in agreement with the rule of right behaviour. But you cannot. There is none of
our impulses which the Moral Law may not sometimes tell us to suppress, and none
which it may not sometimes tell us to encourage. It is a mistake to think that
some of our impulses--say mother lover or patriotism--are good, and others, like
sex or the fighting instinct, are bad. All we mean is that the occasions on
which the fighting instinct or the sexual desire need to be restrained are
rather more frequent than those for restraining mother love or patriotism. But
there are situations in which it is the duty of a married man to encourage his
sexual impulse and of a soldier to encourage the fighting instinct. There are
also occasions on which a mother's love for her own children or a man's love for
his country have to be suppressed or they will lead to unfairness towards other
people's children or countries.

I think there ought to be no rules whatever prohibiting improper publications...
I think prohibitions immensely increase people's interest in pornography, as in
anything else. I used often to go to America during Prohibition, and there was
far more drunkenness that there was before, far more, and I think that
prohibition of pornography has much the same effect. Now I'll give you an
illustration of what I mean about prohibitions. The philosopher Empedocles
thought it was very, very wicked to munch laurel leaves, and he laments that he
will have to spend ten thousand years in outer darkness because he munched
laurel leaves. No nobody's ever told me not to munch laurel leaves and I've
never done it, but Empedocles who was told not to, did it. And I think the same
applies to pornography.
